Change: Use data containers for feed sync (#174)
greenbone/docs: src/common/container/workflows.md

# Workflows

> ## Update the Greenbone Community Containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Updating the Greenbone Community Containers
```

docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition up -d
```

## Performing a Feed Synchronization

For the actual vulnerability scanning, {term}`Vulnerability Tests<VT>`,
security information like CVEs, port lists and scan configurations are required.
All this data is provided by the {term}`Greenbone Community Feed` via dedicated
data container images.

A feed synchronization always consists of two parts:

1. Downloading the changes via pulling new container images

> 2. The changes get loaded into memory and a database by a daemon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Loading the changes into memory and a database by a daemon
```

Both steps may take a while, from several minutes up to hours, especially for the
initial synchronization. Only if both steps are finished, the synchronized data
is up-to-date and can be used.

The first step is done via the {command}`docker-compose pull`. The second step is
done automatically when the daemons are running.

### Downloading the Feed Changes

The data of the {term}`Greenbone Community Feed` is provided via several

> container images. When these images are started they copy the data into the used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
container images. When these images are started, they copy the data into the used
```

> docker volumes automatically. Afterwards the data is picked up by the running
> daemons from the volumes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker volumes automatically. Afterwards, the data is picked up from the
volumes by the running daemons .
```

To download the latest feed data container images run

```{code-block} shell
---

> caption: Downloading the Greenbone Community Edition Feed Data Containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
caption: Downloading the Greenbone Community Edition feed data containers
```

---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition pull notus-data vulnerability-tests scap-data dfn-cert-data cert-bund-data report-formats data-objects
```

To copy the data from the images to the volumes run

```{code-block} shell
---

> caption: Starting the Greenbone Community Feed Data Containers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
caption: Starting the Greenbone Community feed data containers
```

---
docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition up -d notus-data vulnerability-tests scap-data dfn-cert-data cert-bund-data report-formats data-objects
```

### Loading the Feed Changes

```{important}

> When feed content has been downloaded, the new data needs to be loaded by the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When feed content has been downloaded, the new data must be loaded by the
```

corresponding daemons. This may take several minutes up to hours, especially
for the initial loading of the data. Without loaded data, scans will contain
incomplete and erroneous results.
```

After the Greenbone Community Containers have been started, the running daemons
will always pick up the feed content and load the data automatically.

#### Vulnerability Tests Data

If the log (of ospd-openvas) contains the following output, the OpenVAS
Scanner starts to load the new VT data:

```{code-block} none
---
caption: ospd-openvas VT loading log message
---
Loading VTs. Scans will be [requested|queued] until VTs are loaded. This may
take a few minutes, please wait...
```

The loading of the VT data is finished if the log message can be found:
```{code-block} none
---
caption: ospd-openvas VTs loading finished log message
---
Finished loading VTs. The VT cache has been updated from version X to Y.
```

> After the scanner is aware of the VT data, it will be requested by gvmd. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the scanner is aware of the VT data, the data will be requested by gvmd. This
```

docker-compose -f $DOWNLOAD_DIR/docker-compose.yml -p greenbone-community-edition down -v
```

> ##  Gain a Terminal for a Container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##  Gaining a Terminal for a Container
```

Afterwards, you can execute standard bash commands within the running container.

> ## Use gvm-tools for CLI access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using gvm-tools for CLI access
```

gvm-cli --gmp-username admin socket --pretty --xml "<get_version/>"
```

> ## Expose gvmd Unix socket for GMP access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Exposing gvmd Unix socket for GMP Access
```
